# The Long-Term Goal

The goal is to create a sustainable, clean, secure, privacy-conscious and productivity-optimised operating system that is of tremendous value to the world; simplifying life for individuals and positively impacting industry in the process. This is SELF OS. Primarily, this will be a “sideways” system that runs across whatever existing systems people may be using. Compatible with anything, translatable to everything, but with everyone’s personal sovereignty and intelligent connectivity at its core.

This document is primarily about SELF app and it's a progression into a ‘super-app’ that also constructs and scales SELF Chain and helps release the developer SDK. SELF will eventually be completely integrated with all offerings of SELF OS, with the purpose of assisting the user in removing the complexities of ‘getting things done’ and rapidly accessing information that matters most. In due time, we intend to expand into hardware products such as custom, “noise-removing”, and productivity-optimised devices with SELF OS pre-installed, in addition to user-controlled connectivity solutions.

Every industry vertical has the potential to be positively advanced through the efficient and sustainable systems we will offer, using the infrastructure we’re building today and tomorrow. We believe that technological advancements should be having a more positive impact on the world than they currently have. Our goal is to demonstrate how, and hopefully inspire others to do the same.

The vision is huge and bold. There are significant steps on the way towards achieving this greater vision, and each step is represented by a standalone and independently monetisable product offering. We are confident that we will succeed in making our vision of an ethical, fair, and decentralised powerhouse a reality, but the rate at which it materialises will depend on the level of success achieved through our initial product offerings, as well as investor involvement.

Nonetheless, even if it takes longer than we would like, or we only achieve a fraction of our goals, our commitment will not waver. In the worst-case scenario, we will have demonstrated an alternative to a more dystopian future. Provided we can achieve even the beginnings of such a demonstration, we will have succeeded. Future generations can hopefully be inspired by the direction and take this vision further. This is just the beginning.
