# The holistic and unified approach

The blockchain world must offer a user experience that rivals or surpasses centralised platforms. This requires a holistic approach, where functionality and decentralisation benefits go hand-in-hand. User experience needs to be front and center. Most blockchain projects are isolated islands, not part of a unified and functioning ecosystem. There are certainly many unification and interoperability efforts ongoing, but we’ve yet to see a solution in the form of an operating system that glues it all together. In our view, any player in the space who wishes to scale an alternative vision needs to embrace a holistic and unified approach.\
\
For the everyday user to understand and experience the benefits of decentralisation, what is needed is the creation of full-scale alternative systems and the creation of hardware running the systems and connectivity solutions that enable them.

SELF OS must be smooth and coherent, with a deep range of sovereignty-enhancing benefits such as enhanced security, privacy, data ownership, trustless financial transactions, ultra-secure and private data storage/file sharing, etc. However, while these features may be important and valuable to some users, they may not be enough incentive for most to consider using a new OS as an addition or replacement to what they are already using. SELF OS must also offer other benefits, such as built-in distraction-blocking mechanisms, productivity enhancement tools, and, most importantly, a streamlined and optimised user experience. A key factor will be that the system feels good to use.

The ambition for SELF OS is to do what the user needs without demanding too much time, attention, or technical expertise. In our view, technology should enable the user to get as much done in as little time as possible and spend more time on the things they enjoy. SELF OS will not be designed to coerce the user into wasting hours scrolling through an endless timeline of dopamine-triggering and “attention span decreasing” content but will instead strive to gently nudge the users away from such habits. This trend has a profoundly negative impact on modern life and is something we feel duty-bound to address.

The ultimate goal of SELF is to be a market leader in offering this new technology experience. We don’t have the ambition to be alone in this new approach and it would be beneficial if hundreds of other platforms or systems launched with the same or a similar intent.
